September 20th, 2012
====================

Protein Prep of TLC
-------------------

Induced C3013 cells containing pET22b(+)-TLC were spun down in two separate
containers yesterday. These were removed from the -80C freezer and placed on
ice for ~20 minutes. 5mL of Eq/Wash Buffer was added to each vessel and allowed
to sit for 20 minutes with occasional swirling. This cell resuspension was then
placed in a small plastic beaker with a small magnetic stirbar and placed in an
ice bath. Another 5mL of buffer was used to wash out the containers and was
then poured into the beaker.

A pinch of lysozyme was added to the cell
resuspension and the mixture was set to stir for ~45 minutes. After removing
the stirbar, the cells were tranferred to the sonicator in the cold room and
program 5 was executed. The lysate was then tranferred to centrifuge tubes for
the ultracentrifuge in the Ho Lab.

Due to a small crack in the ultracentrifuge tube, I reduced the speed from the
typical 27-30K rpm to 25K rpm. It was set to run for 45 minutes. When I
returned I noticed a blinking light noting a "Drive" error. I thought little of
after opening the centrifuge and finding the tube intact and a pellet of cell
lysate, however the supernatant was not fully clear. I incorrectly attributed
this to the lower speed and decided to increase the speed to 30K for another
run. After this run, there was no "Drive" error indicator, but the tube had
fractured (I disposed of it) and I had to clean another to do a subsequent run.
I discussed the matter of the fracture with Kaustubh and he suggested that the
tube should always be filled almost completely, and that he does not leave the
centrifuge before it has reached 7K. After setting up a new run, I watched it
accelerate and upon reaching 5.7K it signaled the "Drive" error and stopped.
My tubes had been balanced to within 10mg with a bench scale, so I wiped the
base of the rotor to ensure the speed indicator markings were clean, and wiped
up some moisture near the axis and began another run. I waited for the vacuum
to reach its maximum before starting the run, ultimately the error ocurred once
more. During this time I noticed that the rotation counter on the centrifuge
showed rather insignificant increases on each run, which indicated that neither
of the first two runs had reached full speed (in retrospect I recalled that
each run indicated 43 minutes remaining as well, reaching 2.7K takes 2min).
Thus it appears that the first tube fractured at even a low speed; they should
be disposed of at the first sign of cracking. The centrifuge likely needed
repairs, so I did the following at Sahil's suggestion after class.

Around 8:30pm, I portioned the cell lysate into 22 microcentrifuge tubes and
then spun them at maximum microfuge speed for 25 minutes. I used the microfuge
located in the Macbeth Lab cold room. I then collected the lysate supernatant
into two 15mL tubes and stored them on ice in the cold room overnight.

Advanced Algorithms
-------------------

I gave a lecture/discussion on two papers, doi:10.1038/nsb805 and
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17951810 Dr. Ilyin advised that I focus less
on the mathematical proofs, and rather more on the fundamental ideas they
illustrate.
